---
layout: default
Lastmod: 2020-06-30T00:10:56.836055+00:00
date: 2020-06-30T00:00:00.000Z
title: "【南华早报】中国将因香港事宜限制美国官员签证"
author: "习民"
tags: [中美冲突]
---

[https://www.scmp.com/news/china/politics/article/3091015/china-put-visa-restrictions-us-officials-over-hong-kong]( "https://www.scmp.com/news/china/politics/article/3091015/china-put-visa-restrictions-us-officials-over-hong-kong")  
  

> China to put visa restrictions on US officials over Hong Kong  
> 
> *   Any American efforts to undermine introduction of national security law for the city will not succeed, foreign ministry says
> *   Beijing silent on what officials and how many will be targeted
> 
>   
> China has announced visa restrictions on US officials who “behave egregiously” in relation to Hong Kong affairs.  
>   
> The move is in retaliation for Washington’s decision last week to restrict visas for Chinese officials who undermine Hong Kong’s semi-autonomous status.  
>   
> Announcing the restrictions on Monday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said any efforts by the US to hinder Beijing’s introduction of a   
> [national security law in Hong Kong]( "https://www.scmp.com/topics/hong-kong-national-security-law")  
>  “would not succeed”.  
> “In view of the erroneous actions of the US, China has decided to impose visa restrictions on US officials who behave egregiously on Hong Kong-related issues,” Zhao said, without saying who or how many officials would be targeted.  
>   
>   
> “No matter how Hong Kong separatists squawk, and no matter what kind of pressure is exerted by external anti-China forces, their scheme to obstruct the passage of the Hong Kong national security law will never prevail and the bill is but piece of waste paper,” he added, referring to   
> [the US Senate’s passage of the Hong Kong Autonomy Act last week]( "https://www.scmp.com/news/world/united-states-canada/article/3090631/us-senate-passes-bill-would-punish-china-hong-kong")  
> .  
>   
> On Friday, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced US visa restrictions on serving and former Communist Party officials “believed to be responsible for, or complicit in” undermining Hong Kong’s autonomy, rights, and freedoms.  
>   
> Pompeo, too, did not elaborate and China responded immediately by threatening retaliation.  
>   
> The national security law is expected to be passed by the Standing Committee of China’s legislature, the National People’s Congress, which started a three-day meeting on Sunday.  
>   
>   
> Last week, European Union leaders warned Chinese President Xi Jinping of “very negative consequences” over its plan to introduce the law in Hong Kong.  
>   
>   
> “The national security law risks seriously undermining the ‘one country, two systems’ principle,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said. “We also conveyed that China risks very negative consequences if it goes forward with imposing this law.”  
>   
> The US’ Hong Kong Autonomy Act comes on the heels of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act and seeks to establish mandatory sanctions for individuals or companies that have “materially contributed” to China’s failure to comply with the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Basic Law, the city’s mini-constitution.  
>   
>   
> It would also impose sanctions on foreign financial institutions that have “knowingly conducted significant transactions” with those individuals and entities.  
>   
>   
> The US House of Representatives must pass the bill before it can become law.  
>   
>   
> _**For a 50% early bFird discount on the 100+ page China Internet Report 2020 Pro Edition**, which includes deep-dive analysis, trends, and case studies on the 10 most important internet sectors. Now in its 3rd year, this go-to source for understanding China tech also comes with exclusive access to 6 webinars with C-level executives. Offer valid until 30 June 2020._  
>   

  
  
我都不知道要发欢乐恶搞还是时事了，而且没有名单和人数，看上去应该是口嗨

            
### 品葱用户 **chaosmk2** 评论于 2020-06-30
        
哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈谁能告诉我1年里有多少美国官员要来中国吗
        


            
### 品葱用户 **penima** 评论于 2020-06-29
        
互封官员财产 请  
不敢是小狗
        


            
### 品葱用户 **火炙维尼寿司** 评论于 2020-06-30
        
支国匪共真以为美国官员要来这个鸟不拉屎的国度？
        


            
### 品葱用户 **月刃格** 评论于 2020-06-30
        
充公拜登兒子的財產……那就證明到誰是舔共……  
  
我感覺川普笑了
        






> [点击品葱原文参与讨论](https://pincong.rocks/article/20964)

