---
layout: default
Lastmod: 2020-04-02T02:01:26.274421+00:00
date: 2020-04-02T02:01:26.274358+00:00
title: "关于无症状感染者，你想知道的都在这里"
author: "端端酱"
tags: [2020,al,et,Journal,coronavirus,SARS,infection,Medicine]
---

1\. Nature Covert coronavirus infections could be seeding new outbreaks （2020-3-20）https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-00822-x#ref-CR2

2\. Case Study Shows Asymptomatic Transmission of COVID-19 in China，MAR 30, 2020 | JONNA LORENZ

3\. 中国疾病预防控制中心. 新型冠状病毒肺炎流行病学特征分析.中华流行病学杂志 41.2(2020):145-151.

4\. Ali, et al. “A family cluster of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus infections related to a likely unrecognized asymptomatic or mild case.” International Journal of Infectious Diseases (2013): e668-e672.

5\. Al-Tawfiq, Jaffar A., R. F. Kattan, and Z. A. Memish. “Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus disease is rare in children: An update from Saudi Arabia.” World Journal of Clinical Pediatrics 5.4(2016):391-396.

6\. Al-Tawfiq, Jaffar A., and Philippe Gautret. “Asymptomatic Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection: extent and implications for infection control: a systematic review.” Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease 27 (2019): 27-32.

7\. Chan, Jasper Fuk-Woo, et al. “A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster.” The Lancet (2020): 514-523.

8\. Che, Xiao-yan, et al. “A patient with asymptomatic severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and antigenemia from the 2003–2004 community outbreak of SARS in Guangzhou, China.” Clinical Infectious Diseases 43.1 (2006): e1-e5.

9\. Hoehl, Sebastian, et al. “Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in returning travelers from Wuhan, China.” New England Journal of Medicine (2020).

10.Kupferschmidt, K. “Study claiming new coronavirus can be transmitted by people without symptoms was flawed.” Science (2020). 

11\. Rothe, Camilla, et al. “Transmission of 2019-nCoV infection from an asymptomatic contact in Germany.” New England Journal of Medicine (2020).

12\. Zou, Lirong, et al. “SARS-CoV-2 viral load in upper respiratory specimens of infected patients.”New England Journal of Medicine (2020).

