---
layout: default
Lastmod: 2021-02-23T09:29:28.044458+00:00
date: 2021-02-24T00:00:00.000Z
title: "博明：中国依靠军队掩盖和遏制最初的疫情，中国CDC起初不知情"
author: "uefw328"
tags: [中国,								武汉肺炎,								武汉p4实验室,								武汉肺炎起源]
---

特朗普政府时期的美国副国家安全顾问博明（Matthew Pottinger）在CBS的Face the Nation节目回顾了美国去年的COVID疫情处理。其中关于中国的部分摘录在下方。  
  
（关于武汉病毒研究的背景：[https://pincong.rocks/article/28559](https://pincong.rocks/article/28559 "https://pincong.rocks/article/28559") [https://pincong.rocks/video/3771](https://pincong.rocks/video/3771 "https://pincong.rocks/video/3771")）  
  
主持人：So the World Health Organization has said that COVID-19 was circulating in Wuhan, China in late 2019, but it took until January 2nd of 2020 before the CDC made that first call to the National Security Council where you worked. Why didn't U.S. health officials or U.S. intelligence know earlier about this threat?（为什么美国没有更早知道威胁？）  
  
博明：Well, U.S. intelligence wasn't focused on these kinds of questions. They were relying on the CDC. The CDC- our CDC in China had a working relationship with the Chinese CDC. We funded it. We had helped them with their HIV pandemic. We- we'd trained many of their officials, including the head of the Chinese CDC. The problem was the Chinese Communist Party did not turn to their CDC to deal with this crisis. They turned to their military. And our CDC did not have relations established with the Chinese military. So the director of the Chinese CDC, based on public reporting, didn't know either. I mean, the Chinese CDC director did not know that this thing was circulating until the last day of December, which is incredible when you think about that. So it looks like the Chinese CDC to some extent was cut out because the Chinese Communist Party turned to its military to try to cover this thing up, to try to contain it until it was too late. And the consequences are- we're all feeling now.（美国情报单位依赖CDC从中国CDC获取消息，但中共这次靠军队而不是CDC来处理危机。美国CDC与中国军方无关系。中国CDC直至12月底才知晓，但为时已晚。）  
  
主持人：But to be clear, I mean, U.S. intelligence has said COVID, according to wide scientific consensus, was not man-made or genetically modified. You are not in any way alleging that it was, are you?（COVID非人造或基因编辑）  
  
博明：No, what- what I'm stating is basically what you saw stated in a very carefully crafted fact sheet that the State Department put out in January. That statement says right at the very beginning, we don't know where this thing originated. It may have come from a natural jump from animals into the human species. It may have come and, you know, resulted from an accident in a laboratory. And we've seen accidents take place in recent years, including in some of China's most well-regarded laboratories. They had an accidental outbreak in 2004 of the SARS virus, which they were studying. That- that was a fatal outbreak. It infected nine people. And so if you weigh the circumstantial evidence, because we don't have hard evidence, the Chinese government's making it very difficult to- to pin down and pursue hard evidence. But if you weigh the circumstantial evidence, the ledger on the side of an explanation that says that this resulted from some kind of human error, it far outweighs the- the side of the scale that says this was some natural outbreak. Now, one of the things that we put out in that statement were some questions, some leads that we were hoping WHO affiliated investigators would look at, that we hope journalists will look at, that we would hope that Beijing would come clean on, although we're not holding our breath on that. Some of those things include the fact that we have very strong reason to believe that the Chinese military was doing secret classified animal experiments in that same laboratory, going all the way back to at least 2017. We have good reason to believe that there was an outbreak of flu-like illness among researchers working in the Wuhan Institute of virology in the fall of 2019, but immediately before the first documented cases came to light. We also know that they were working on viruses, doing gain of function research study, technical sorts of experiments with viruses, including a virus that was discovered in the southwestern province of Yunnan that is most similar to the virus that we all now know as COVID. So there are a lot of leads that we put out there that I- I don't see any evidence that this panel of- of researchers affiliated with the WHO were able to get any information on any of these questions. They haven't even addressed answers to any of these questions.（中国干扰下，美国难获得确凿证据。中国军方在那个实验室进行秘密动物实验；研究人员2019年秋天爆发了流感样疾病；进行病毒GOF研究，包括在云南西南部发现的病毒。）  
  
主持人：So what you're referring to is some information that the State Department declassified right before the end of the Trump administration that detailed some of the things you just laid out there. And it said that--（美国务院的那份声明）  
  
博明：Right.（对）  
  
主持人：--you have reason to believe a COVID-like disease was circulating in autumn of 2019 in China. Is there evidence to back up that assessment?（有证据吗？）  
  
博明：There is. And that was a very carefully crafted statement, carefully crafted so as not to overstate the case that- that it was making. The case it was making was for following up on these important leads. So this was a document that was scrubbed by every department within every bureau within the State Department, was looked at very carefully by the National Security Council staff, intelligence officers, Health and Human Services. This was not a haphazard set of allegations that were laid out in that statement.（那份声明经过字斟句酌，不是草率行事。）  
  
主持人：So the Wuhan Institute of Virology is this lab that was near the market that so much early reporting was focused on, and in this lab, it's been characterized really as, you know, a private research facility. But you are saying here that the Chinese military was running its own experiments inside that lab. You think- do you think that this was just an accident that really spiraled out of control?（中国军队在其中进行秘密实验，COVID真的是意外事故吗？）  
  
博明：Yeah, I think that- I don't- I'm not aware of any evidence, even circumstantial evidence, to suggest that this was a deliberate seeding of- of a pandemic by anybody. But the types of research that were underway, both by the civilian staff of the Wuhan Institute of Technology and also military researchers that they were closely affiliated with were studies into exactly the kinds of viruses that, you know, ones that are 96% similar to the virus that's now making us all sick. They were doing gain-of-function research using humanized mice, for example. That's to say mice that have been genetically modified to express human-like features, human lung tissue, for example, and then pushing viruses through humanized mice, which can sometimes lead- sometimes intentionally what you're trying to do is study the dynamics of a virus to see what- what's dangerous about a virus. What, you know, what do we need to know to protect ourselves from a virus? And in doing that kind of research there- it's highly possible that that led to some kind of an accident that seeded the COVID pandemic that's now killed more than two million of our- our fellow human beings.（不是故意为之。在实验室里进行GOF实验，基因改造的老鼠可以表达出人类的性状。实验意外可以导致COVID大流行。）

            
### 品葱用户 **uefw328** 评论于 2021-02-23
        
来源：https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/the-us-should-reveal-its-intelligence-about-the-wuhan-laboratory/2021/02/22/da0e9e90-753f-11eb-9537-496158cc5fd9\_story.html  
  
2021年2月23日华盛顿邮报《美国应该揭露其在武汉实验室情报》呼吁解密那份国务院声明背后的情报。
        


            
### 品葱用户 **呆呆加速师** 评论于 2021-02-24
        
去年1月，俄爹水军披露我军陈薇少将注射人类第1针武肺疫苗。背后的原因很暖心。
        






> [点击品葱原文参与讨论](https://pincong.rocks/video/3916)

