---
layout: default
Lastmod: 2020-06-21T12:13:49.785623+00:00
date: 2020-06-21T12:13:47.775262+00:00
title: "邀请参加方舟子著作翻译工作"
author: ""
tags: [The,translation,translators,Chinese,com,Editor,characters,000,OSAIC,RMB,新语丝]
---

邀请参加方舟子著作翻译工作

An Invitation to participate in translating Dr. Shimin Fang’s Works

The OSAIC (中国科学与学术诚信基金会) has approved a grant to translate the selected works, speeches, and articles of Dr. Shimin Fang, aka 方舟子. The translation (in English) will be edited for a book publication. This translation provides access for English readers to appreciate critical issues in science education in China, its social backgrounds, major events, and challenges to scientific and academic integrity.

Translating Dr. Fang’s works requires deep appreciation of his concise and lively Chinese proses. Translator must be capable of rendering them accurately into English with accessible stylistic representation.

To select the translators for this important project, OSIAC would like to invite you to submit a translation of one or more of the following articles:

矮象与硕鼠

https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/YqGUjBz2bEiOQxHxqlSidw

心中有道义，脑中有科学

https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/Z8narFomjUSx34ooOmibmw

科学是美丽的

https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/XreLnRwu0nA2QX_cnplC7A

The OSAIC has entrusted Zixian Deng (邓自闲) with the translation editorial responsibility. The Editor will screen and choose the translators and submit them to the Grantor for approval.

The selected translators will be compensated their labor. The honorarium will be calculated per 1,000 Chinese characters in an original article, granted at three levels: $200 USD (or equivalent to ￥1,340 RMB)/1,000 Chinese characters, $250 USD (￥1,675 RMB)/1,000 Chinese characters, and $300 USD (￥2,010 RMB)/1,000 Chinese characters. The Editor will work with the translators to determine the level of efforts at the beginning of the project.

To ensure a timely publication, translators must evaluate the workload and be able to deliver the assignment in 15 calendar weeks. Should conditions change, translator must notify the Editor as soon as possible and no later than 14 days before the deliverables due date to receive the honoraria for completed translation. No late deliverables will be accepted.

The editor and translators will not hold any claims or rights nor receive further remuneration from the publication or related activities. OSAIC and the translation Editor would like to invite you to participate in this translation project. Please send your translation to: TranslateSAF@gmail.com.

(XYS20181009)

